.TH KABMAT 1 2022-04-04 2.7.1

.SH NAME
kabmat \- kanban board management TUI program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kabmat
[\fBOPTION\fR]...
[\fB\-t|\-o\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B kabmat
is an ncurses-based kanban boards manager with vim-like keybindings.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help message.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version.

.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List all boards.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-create \ \fIname
Create a new board with the given \fIname.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-open \ \fIname
Open board with the given \fIname. This option shouldn't be used with the \fB\-t\fR option.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-delete \ \fIname
Delete board with the given \fIname.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-text
Disable tui (e.g. when you want to just create a board and not enter it (useful for scripts)).
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-card-at-bottom
When moving cards between columns, put them at the bottom.

.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Help Window
.TP
.B k
scroll up one line
.TP
.B j
scroll down one line
.TP
.B q
close the window

.SS Main Menu
.TP
.B q
quit
.TP
.B ?
show help window
.TP
.B k
highlight the above board name
.TP
.B j
highlight the below board name
.TP
.B g
highlight the first board name
.TP
.B G
highlight the last board name
.TP
.B K
move highlighted board up
.TP
.B J
move highlighted board down
.TP
.B d
delete the currently highlighted board
.TP
.B r
rename the currently highlighted board
.TP
.B c
create a new board and highlight it
.TP
.B <Enter>
open the currently highlighted board

.SS Input Field (Normal mode)
.TP
.B <Esc>, q
cancel and close the input field
.TP
.B <Enter>
submit and close the input field
.TP
.B h
move cursor one character to the left
.TP
.B l
move cursor one character to the right
.TP
.B 0
move cursor to the start of the line
.TP
.B $
move cursor to the end of the line
.TP
.B k
move cursor up one line (in multi-row input only)
.TP
.B j
move cursor down one line (in multi-row input only)
.TP
.B g
move cursor to the first line (in multi-row input only)
.TP
.B G
move cursor to the last line (in multi-row input only)
.TP
.B i
change mode to insert
.TP
.B a
move cursor one character to the right and change mode to insert
.TP
.B I
move cursor to the start of the line and change mode to insert
.TP
.B A
move cursor to the end of the line and change mode to insert
.TP
.B S
delete everything on the line and change mode to insert
.TP
.B d
delete line under cursor (in multi-row input only)

.SS Input Field (Insert mode)
.TP
.B <Esc>
change mode to normal
.TP
.B <Enter>
submit and close the input field (or add a new line in multi-row input)
.TP
.B <Backspace>/<Delete>
delete the character before the cursor
.TP
.B (Any other key is inserted before the cursor)

.SS Confirmation Window
.TP
.B <Enter>, y
confirm action (yes)
.TP
.B <Esc>, n
cancel action (no)


.SS Board Screen
.TP
.B q
quit to where the board was opened from (main menu or cli)
.TP
.B ?
show help window
.TP
.B h
focus the left column
.TP
.B l
focus the right column
.TP
.B k
focus the above card
.TP
.B j
focus the below card
.TP
.B g
focus the first card
.TP
.B G
focus the last card
.TP
.B H
move focused card to the left column
.TP
.B L
move focused card to the right column
.TP
.B K
move focused card up
.TP
.B J
move focused card down
.TP
.B <C\-h>, <C\-p>
move focused column to the left
.TP
.B <C\-l>, <C\-n>
move focused column to the right
.TP
.B C
create a new column
.TP
.B E
edit title of focused column
.TP
.B D
delete focused column
.TP
.B c
create a new card in focused column
.TP
.B e
edit focused card
.TP
.B d
delete focused card


.SS Card Info Window
.TP
.B q
cancel and close (if in normal mode)
.TP
.B <Enter>
submit and close (if in normal mode)
.TP
.B <Tab>
switch focused input (content or description)
.TP
.B c
open checklist items window
.TP
.B (Any other key gets handled by the focused input)


.SS Checklist Window
.TP
.B q
close the window
.TP
.B k
highlight the item above
.TP
.B j
highlight the item below
.TP
.B g
highlight the first item
.TP
.B G
highlight the last item
.TP
.B K
move highlighted item up
.TP
.B J
move highlighted item down
.TP
.B c
add a new item to the list
.TP
.B e
edit content of highlighted item
.TP
.B <Space>
toggle highlighted item (done/not done)
.TP
.B d
delete highlighted item

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.local/share/kabmat/data
Main data file (see NOTES for info about syntax in this file).
.TP
.I $HOME/.local/share/kabmat/data_bkp
A backup file to which content of main data file is copied before writing anything into main date file to minimize data loss on crashes.

.SH NOTES
The syntax of the data file simply depends on indentation. Here is how. (The start and end of a line are marked with \fB^\fR and \fB$\fR respectively for demo purposes only)
.PP
^a board's name$
.PP
^ a column's name in that board$
.PP
^  a card's content in that column$
.PP
^   \-a not done checklist item in that card$
.PP
^   +a done checklist item in that card$
.PP
^    Description of this card.$
.PP
^    The description of the card can be multi-line$
.PP
^another board starts here$
.PP
^ and so on...$
.PP
Each line is an entry. A board's name has no spaces before it. A column's title has 1. A card's content has 2. A card's checklist item has 3. A card's description has 4.
.PP
A checklist item is marked not done by adding a \- before its content and marked done by adding + before it.

.SH AUTHOR
PlankCipher <https://github.com/PlankCipher>
